## iCloud3 Version 2.2.0 - Release Candidate Change Log

#### Release Candidate 6 (6/12/2020)

* Added an Event Log card version check. When iCloud3 starts, the version of the Event Log in the *custom_components /icloud3* directory is compared to the Event Log in the *www/custom_cards* directory. If the version in the custom_components directory is newer, it will be copied to the custom cards directory and a message is displayed in the Event Log indicating that the Event Log was updated and the browser and the iOS App cache's need to be cleared and refreshed. See the Change Log for more details.

#### Release Candidate 5 (6/2/2020)

* The initial stationary zone's location is 1 km north of your home zone and, if your normal driving route takes you through the stationary zone, you will trigger zone enters/exits. This update lets you move the initial stationary zone to avoid this situation using the `stationary_zone_offse`t parameter. With it, you can specify the exact GPS coordinates of the Initial Stationary Zone or specify a 1km offset multiplier (north or south, east or west) of the Home zone. 
  * Examples: '1,0' - Offset 1km North, '2,-1' - Offset 2km North, 1km East of Home, '(27.738520, -75.380462)' - Specify the GPS coordinates

#### Release Candidate 4 (5/31/2020)

* The Event Log will only show the state/zone/interval/travel time/distance line when the values change. This reduces the size of the Event Log and improves it's readability.

* Cleaned up the Event Log code and made several visual changes.

* Errors encountered when sending a message to a device are now caught. The error and message are displayed in the HA log and on the Event Log.

* Increased the number of records that will be displayed in the Event Log.

* When the account needed to be authenticated in the Web Services Program (pyicloud-ic3.py), an 'Error 450' error message was displayed in the HA Log. This has been changed to an Info message that describes that the authentication is needed.

* The battery level from the iOS App is now displayed when using the Find-my-Friends tracking method or when the battery level is not available when using the Family Sharing tracking method.
* Cleaned up and tuned some more code.

#### Release Candidate 3 (5/27/2020)

* Fixed an issue where the iOS App location request time was not set available, creating an error when restarting ic3 multiple of times on the Event Log screen.

* iCloud3 was using legacy HA DeviceScanner code that was made available for people running HA versions before 0.95. iCloud3 will now use the current code rather than legacy code.

* Changed the "Error 450" error message generated by pyicloud_ic3.py when the iCloud account needed to be authenticated from an 'error' message to an 'info' message. It now just indicates a reauthentication is needed, which is then done by iCloud3.

#### Release Candidate 2 (5/26/2020)

* Fixed the error generated if running older versions of HA that do not have the zone.reload service call.

* Revamped the Trusted Device selection and code entry forms to fix some issues where the Trusted Devices were not displayed.

* Did some home house keeping and added a few error trapping routines.